== 1 ==

1. How many faces are there in the dataset, and how many measurements are provided for each
face? That is, what are the values of N and M? In Faces.java, complete the top of the
function main(). Hint: although we provide the images behind the first 1000 faces only,
there are many more in the dataset.


- 5000 faces and 50 measurement 


2. What is the variance3 of the data along each dimension? Complete the function variance(),
run Faces and enter variance when prompted for an action. Take advantage of the unit
tests in FacesTest to check your implementation.

- Check the plot


3. Simply by looking at the images, can you identify the different sources of variability between
the faces? Phrased differently: how many numbers would you need to precisely describe the
variable part of a face?

- 7 sources: face, hair, eyes and hat color; eyes, hair size; mouth shape.


4. How does this compare to the dimension of the measurement vector outputted by FaceAnalyzr
for each face?

- 50 is a lot more than 7, a lot of values are probably irrelevant.


5. By looking at the images and their corresponding row in the dataset (e.g. face0000.png
corresponds to the 1st line in data/faces.txt), are you able to identify any correlation
between facial features and vector values?

- We really tried, but no... It's too difficult to do it "by hand"

7. Run Face with the action pca, and look at the plot of the variances. How many components
stand out? How does this relate to your intuition about the variability of the faces?

- 6 components stand out, which is one less than what we found. We can suppose two things: 
either the FaceAnalyzer algorithm does not detect one of the 7 variables, or there is an
underlying correlation between empirically observed variables, and there actually are only
6 degrees of freedom.


9. Using the action extremes you can see which of the 1000 first faces have extremal values
along any dimension4
in the new space. By visually comparing faces with low values to faces
with high values for the first few dimensions, map each principal component to a variable
facial feature.

- 1: mouth shape (smallest = smile, largest = sad)
- 2: eye size (smallest = big eyes, largest = small eyes)
- 3: eye color (smallest = dark eyes, largest = turquoise eyes)
- 4: hair size (smallest = short, largest = long)
- 5: hair color (smallest = blond, largest = brown)
- 6: face color (smallest = dark, largest = light)

- 7: as expected, no visible correlation

10. There is no image attached to the item at row 3797 of the dataset. Can you give a description
of the main facial features? You should be able to do it with the machinery implemented so
far.

- We computed the 6 first dimensions for row 3797:

Dimension 1: -80.07
Dimension 2: -18.02
Dimension 3: 9.86
Dimension 4: -4.71
Dimension 5: -3.91
Dimension 6: -0.86

- The face probably has a smiling face, big turquoise eyes, short blond hair and relatively dark face color

== 2 ==

5. On the plot that you obtain, each color represents a different political party. How do you
intepret this plot? What interpretation do you give to the first two principal directions?

- Direction x: negative = left wing, positive = right wing
- Direction y: negative = liberal, positive = conservative

6.Plot the coordinates along the third principal direction (against either the first or second.)
Are you able to give a meaningful interpretation to the third direction as well?

- Not really, it does not seem like there is a big correlation between party and 3rd dimension.

7. Inside of the function questions, compute once more the PCA of the answers matrix.
Extract the first three principal components, and for each of them, print out the text of the
three most relevant questions. How do you find them? What is your operational definition of
most relevant question for a given principal component?

- We find the three questions (dimensions) that have the biggest absolute values in the rotation 
matrix along row of corresponding principal component (row 0, 1 and 2 for component 1, 2 and 3).


Results:

Dimension 1's "best" questions:
Would you support foreigners who have lived for at least ten years in Switzerland being given voting and electoral rights at municipal level throughout Switzerland?
Would you essentially welcome greater restriction on the tax competition that applies between the cantons?
A recently launched popular initiative is proposing to limit the maximum salary that can be earned in a company to 12 times the lowest salary (the "1:12" initiative). Do you support this idea?

Dimension 2's "best" questions:
Today, the Swiss Army can take part in UN or OSCE peace-keeping missions abroad, armed for self-defence purposes. Do you approve?
Should Switzerland conclude an agricultural free trade agreement with the EU?
Do you support the existing agreement with the EU on the free movement of peoples?

Dimension 3's "best" questions:
Would you support the right of doctors in Switzerland to help someone die with impunity?
Should same-sex couples who have registered their partnership be able to adopt children?
Switzerland has relatively strict rules when it comes to medically assisted reproduction. Should these be relaxed?

8. Interpret the questions for each principal component. How do they relate to your previous
interpretation of the candidates’ plot?

- Component 1 & 2 seem to relate well, even though we are not really aware of the politics in general.
- Component 3 seem to, however, have a meaning. It looks like questions are about medical ethics.



